---
title: Getting Familiar with Redis Data Types
published: true
date: "2019-09-25"
tags: "technology redis caching cache"
unsplash-image-id: "t0SlmanfFcg"
description: "I've been interested in learning more about Redis, and when work presented me the opportunity, I jumped right in. In this post, I'll explore some of the common data types in Redis and when it makes sense to use each. I'll also provide some funny, real-world examples."
---

I want to preface this post with the notice that I am by no means a professional financial planner and this post should be taken as a guideline, not a hard and fast rule. Everyone's situation in life is different, and if you are worried about your own financial wellbeing, you should consult a professional. With that being said, I felt this would be a great intro post into the financial side of my blog. Personal finance is something I've become really interested in over the past couple of years and I continue to learn something new in the field almost daily it seems. So, I figured what better way to teach others than to share my own personal learnings along the way! This post is aimed at younger adults just fresh on their financial journey, but could really be used as a guiding path for people of all ages who just want to get their finances in order. Let's dig in.

# Get Out of Debt!

Looking back, one of the scariest moments for me out of college was getting my first real job. No, not because I was finally out on my own or because there was the risk of losing said job. I didn't know it at the time, but the biggest hurdle for me was not blowing all that money I now had on junk I didn't need. I made the mistake of purchasing a brand new car right out of college and, what's worse, I got a loan to pay for it [yikes emoji]. So, I'm going to kick this off with my first piece of advice, DON'T GET INTO DEBT! If you are already somewhat in debt, your first goal should be to pay down as much of that as you can, as quickly as possible.

# 401k Match

Now that we've gotten that out of the way, what's next? You have a job, with disposable income, and don't know what to do with it. My initial suggestion would be to head straight over to your HR department and find out if they offer any sort of match on a 401k. If they do, that's your first step! Some companies offer a generous match on your own personal contribution to a 401k, up to a certain percentage of your income. Now, it would be foolish of you not to take them up on this, since it's essentially FREE MONEY! [dollar emoji]

# Emergency Funds

After you've taken advantage of that sweet deal, it's time to start putting money away for that rainy day [thunderstorm emoji]. Now, I'm not talking about money to be splurged on for a big purchase. This money is to be used in emergency situations only (think losing a job and needing to pay those bills type situations). Usually, the preferred amount is anywhere between 3-6 months of living expenses, depending on your risk tolerance. If you feel like you could find a new job relatively easy, just shoot for 3 months, initially. If, however, your occupation is not as in-demand as you'd like, it may be more prudent to bump that number closer to 6 months. Typically, I like to put this money in something like a [High-Yield Savings Account](https://www.investopedia.com/articles/pf/09/high-yield-savings-account.asp), as the interest you receive is much higher than a traditional savings account. But, if you feel more comfortable or have a bank that you enjoy, feel free to use them instead.

# IRA

IRAs are a very interesting saving technique and one I personally enjoy exploring. There are a lot of differing opinions on the strategies involved with IRAs (and 401ks for that matter) when it comes to what type of IRA you should have (Roth vs Traditional). I believe that discussion to be out of scope for this post, but I will come back at a later time to get more in-depth with those points. For now, just know that as of 2019, the [maximum contribution for an IRA is \$6,000](https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/401k-contribution-limit-increases-to-19000-for-2019-ira-limit-increases-to-6000) (\$7,000 if you're over 50) and you should try and get as close to that number as you can afford. There are so many tax benefits to contributing to an IRA, that this should be your immediate choice over any other savings or investment vehicles. There are a lot of options for choosing an IRA, including the companies that offer them. My simple advice would be to go with a company like [Vanguard](https://investor.vanguard.com/home/) and stick with a target date retirement plan. For instance, if you think you're going to retire close to 2050 (~30 years from now), go with the [Vanguard Target Retirement 2050 Fund (VFIFX)](https://investor.vanguard.com/mutual-funds/profile/VFIFX).

# 401k (Continued)

Once you've reached that magic number and maxed out your IRA contribution, it's time to dump a little more into your 401k. The [maximum amount, as of 2019, an individual can contribute](https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/401k-contribution-limit-increases-to-19000-for-2019-ira-limit-increases-to-6000) to a 401k is $19,000 (or $25,000 if you're over 50 years old). Now, when you're contributing to a 401k, you might notice that the options are pretty limited (quite a bit so, compared to your IRA). The best advice I can give here is to look through the options for something called an [expense ratio](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Expense_ratio). The goal here is to get this number as low as possible and, ideally, it should be somewhere between [0.5% and 0.75%](https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/032715/when-expense-ratio-considered-high-and-when-it-considered-low.asp).

# Brokerage or Taxable Accounts

If you've gotten this far with money left over and maxed out the tax-advantaged accounts (401k and IRA) described above, your next option is to put that money in a taxable brokerage account. Technically, there are other ways to contribute more to a tax-advantaged account, including a [Backdoor Roth IRA](https://www.nerdwallet.com/blog/investing/backdoor-roth-ira-high-income-how-to-guide/), but those advanced techniques are out of scope for this post. A brokerage account can be opened with the same institution you used to create your IRA above. The main difference here, is that any time your account pays you income or dividends, you are taxed on that amount. You are also taxed anytime you sell your holdings on any gains they have made over that time period. These [taxable gains](https://www.investopedia.com/articles/personal-finance/101515/comparing-longterm-vs-shortterm-capital-gain-tax-rates.asp) could be either short-term, if you've heald them for less than a year, or long-term (greater than a year). Short term capital gains are taxed at whatever tax bracket you currently fall under for that year. Long term capital gains are typically lower than short-term and can result in being taxed at 0%, 15%, or 20%, depending on your taxable income.

# Closing thoughts

If all of the above sounds confusing, don't worry, it was for me as well. There is a lot to digest and even more once you start digging into the different investment vehicles in more detail. This guide was meant to be a high-level overview of the path someone could take to get their personal finances in order. As they move from one step to the next, it would be a good idea to begin reading more information about that topic, as the further down you get, the more advanced and complex some of these strategies can seem. I hope I've provided you a starting point, and a good general outline for planning your financial future. I plan to write more in-depth topics about the strategies discussed above, so I hope you continue coming back to read! [smile emoji]
